12 November 2020 Government joins the nation in sending its deepest condolences to the family, colleagues and friends of outgoing Auditor General, Kimi Makwetu following his passing yesterday. The country has truly lost one of its most brilliant and dedicated public servants. Makwetu’s passing comes just a week after it was announced that he had been appointed to serve in the United Nations Independent Audit Advisory Committee. The country was looking forward to him serving at this important international body. Makwetu formed part of the leadership of the auditor-general of SA for over a decade, first as the Deputy Auditor General before he was appointed Auditor General in 2013. He was due to retire at the end of November this year after serving his full seven- year term with distinction. Makwetu championed the Public Audit Amendment Act which will hold accounting officers of government departments accountable for material irregularities and gives the AG powers to refer any irregularities for further investigation. His commitment to building an accountable administration was a guiding principle in building public confidence in the office of the Auditor General. He obtained his Social Sciences degree at the University of Cape Town in 1989 and received a BCompt Honours degree from the University of Natal and is a qualified chartered accountant. He started his working career at Standard Bank and worked at various institutions such as Nampak, Deloitte, Liberty and Metropolitan Life. GCIS Director General, Phumla Williams, said: "This is indeed a very sad moment for the country. Makwetu brought a wealth of experience and executed his role with diligence and with the highest standard of professionalism. He ensured that openness and transparency were always displayed with regards to the work of the Auditor General’s office." "Government mourns with his family, friends and colleagues. His family is in our thoughts and prayers at this time," said Williams. Enquiries:Phumla Williams Cell: 0835010139