25 July 2020 Government wishes to update the nation on the arrangements for the Special Official Funeral of the  late Isithwalandwe/Seaparankwe Andrew Mokete Mlangeni, who passed away on Wednesday, 22 July 2020. 1.    Funeral service  and Burial The funeral service will be held at the University of Johannesburg, Soweto Campus on Wednesday, 29 July 2020 starting from 09h00.  This will be followed by a burial at Roodeport cemetery. 2.    Messages of Condolence Government wishes to advise anyone who would like to send  a message of condolence to the Mlangeni family and friends to utilise the e-condolence book available on: condolences@gcis.gov.za(link sends e-mail). 3.    Broadcast and Live Feed Government acknowledges that due to the COVID-19 protocols currently in place, a limited number of people will be able to bid farewell to the late Bab’ Mlangeni by attending the funeral service.  Arrangements have been made for the funeral service and burial to be streamed live on the following government online platforms: Twitter: https://twitter.com/GovernmentZA(link is external) Facebook: https://web.facebook.com/GovernmentZA(link is external) YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/GovernmentZA(link is external) In addition, the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) will broadcast the funeral live on its television and radio channels. President Ramaphosa declared a Special Official Funeral Category 1 for Bab’ Mlangeni. In terms of the Presidential Declaration the National Flag will fly at half-mast between Friday, 24 July 2020 and the morning of Wednesday, 29 July 2020, the day on which Bab’ Mlangeni will be laid to rest. Bab’ Mlangeni was awarded Isithwalandwe/Seaparankwe – the highest honour by the African National Congress for those who have made an outstanding contribution to the liberation struggle in 1992 – and received the Presidential Order for Meritorious Service: Class 1: Gold from President Nelson Mandela in 1999. Enquiries:Phumla Williams, GCIS Director-GeneralCell: 083 5010 139